1. Initialiaze the project with yarn:
  yarn init

2. Install Babel and Webpack as development dependencies: 
  yarn add @babel/core @babel/preset-env @babel/preset-react webpack webpack-cli -D

3. Install react and react-dom as dependencies:
  yarn add react react-dom

4. Configure babel
  Create the babel.config.js at the project root folder with following content:
    ```js
    module.exports = {
      presets: [
        "@babel/preset-env", 
        "@babel/preset-react"
        ],
    };
    ```

  * @babel/preset-env is a smart preset that allows you to use the latest JavaScript (import/export, arrow functions, etc) without needing to micromanage which syntax transforms (and optionally, browser polyfills) are needed by your target environment(s). This both makes your life easier and JavaScript bundles smaller!
  * @babel/preset-react allows to use react syntax (JSX) and other react features.

5. Configure webpack
  5.1 Create the webpack.config.js at the project root folder.
  
  5.2 Create project folder structure:
    public/
    src/
      index.js
  
    public: contains the project bundle generated by webpack;
    src: contains the project source code. 

  5.3 Install babel-loader:
    yarn add babel-loader -D

  5.4 In the webpack.config.js insert the following content:
    ```js
    const path = require("path");

    module.exports = {
      entry: path.resolve(__dirname, "src", "index.js"),
      output: {
        path: path.resolve(__dirname, "public"),
        filename: "bundle.js"
      },
      module: {
        rules: [
          {
            test: /\.js$/,
            exclude: /node_modules/,
            use: {
              loader: "babel-loader"
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    };
    ```
    * entry: Project entrypoint.
    * output: Project bundle output.
    * modelo.rules: Defines that js files will be transpiled by babel.

6. Configure live reload.     
  6.1 Install webpack-dev-server as development dependencie:
    yarn add webpack-dev-server -D

  6.2 Add dev server in webpack.config.js:
    ```js
    devServer:{
      contentBase: path.resolve(__dirname, 'public'),
    }
    ``` 

7. Add production and development scripts in the package.json:
  ```js
  "scripts": {
    "build": "webpack --mode development",
    "dev": "webpack-dev-server --mode development"
  }
  ```   
8. Create file index.html in public/ folder with following content:
  ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html lang="en">
      <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
        <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="ie=edge" />
        <title>ReactJS Boilerplate</title>
      </head>
      <body>
        <div id="app"></div>
        <script src="./bundle.js"></script>
      </body>
    </html>
  ```
9. Create root component App.js with following content:
  ```js
  import React from "react";

  function App() {
    return <h1>Hello World!</h1>;
  }

  export default App;
  ``` 
10. Import the root component in our application entrypoint file (src/index.js):
  ```js
  import React from "react";
  import { render } from "react-dom";

  import App from "./App";

  render(<App />, document.getElementById("app"));
  ```

11. Configure prettier, eslint and editorconfig for code style. 
  9.1 Install ESlint
    yarn add eslint -D

    9.1.1 Configure ESLint
      yarn eslint --init

      - Select - To check syntax, find problems, and enforce code style
      - Select - javascript modules (import/export)
      - Select - Framework used: React
      - Select - Where the code runs: Browser
      - Select - style guide: Use a popular style guide -> Airbnb
      - Select - formato do arquivo config: Javascript
      - Select - Install now: Y

    9.1.2 Configure linter to fix code on save in VSCode settings file.

    9.1.3 Configure .eslintrc.js to overwrite some airbnb rules:
        rules: {
          "class-methods-use-this": "off",
          "no-param-reassign": "off",
          camelcase: "off",
          "no-unused-vars": ["error", { argsIgnorePattern: "next" }]
        }

  9.2 Install Prettier:
    yarn add prettier eslint-config-prettier eslint-plugin-prettier -D

    9.2.1 Adds prettier in 'extends', 'plugins' and as a new rule in .eslintrc.js:
        extends: ["airbnb-base", "prettier"],
        plugins: ["prettier"],
        rules: {
          "prettier/prettier": "error",
          "class-methods-use-this": "off",
          "no-param-reassign": "off",
          camelcase: "off",
          "no-unused-vars": ["error", { argsIgnorePattern: "next" }]
        }

    9.2.2 Create Prettier config file .prettierrc to overwrite some rules confliting with airbnb:
        {
          "singleQuote": true,
          "trailingComma": "es5"
        }

  9.3 ESlint can be used manually to fix all codes inside a directory using the command:
    yarn eslint --fix **directory** --ext .js

  9.4 EditorConfig plugin is a file format and collection of text editor plugins for maintaining consistent coding styles between different editors and IDEs in a project. After installation: Go to the project root folder and generate the .editorconfig file with following content:
  ```bash
    root = true
    
    [*]
    indent_style = space
    indent_size = 2
    charset = utf-8
    trim_trailing_whitespace = false
    insert_final_newline = false
  ```
PS: in case ESLint warns that jsx content should be declared in .jsx files, the warning can be disable:
1. Disable jsx-filename-extension in .eslintrc.js with following additional rule:
    
  ```js
    "rules": { "react/jsx-filename-extension": [0] }
  ```

2. in webpack.config.js:
  You can use 
  ```js
    resolve: { extensions: ['.js', '.jsx'] },
  ```
  OR update the module.rule.test to:
    
  ```js
    test: /(\.js$)|(\.jsx$)/
  ```

  since I only using .js files, I have kept the same configuration:
  
  ```js
    test: /(\.js$)/
  ```

10. To use css its is necessary to install css loaders for webpack:
  ```bash
    yarn add style-loader css-loader -D
  ``` 
  10.1 include loaders as a new rule in webpack.config.js:
    ```js
      {
        test: /\.css$/,
        use: [
          { loader: 'style-loader'},
          { loader: 'css-loader'},
        ]
      }
    ```
